Deploying your application to StarlingX (#248)
StarlingXWeb/starlingx-website: src/pages/blog/starlingx-deploying-your-app-1.md

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Deploying your application to StarlingX
author: Bruno Muniz

> date: 2023-10-25T12:00:00.042Z

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-11-28T12:00:00.042Z
```

category:
  - label: Features & Updates
---

> Deploying your own application to StarlingX is as easy as any other Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying your own application to StarlingX is as easy as in any other Kubernetes
```

- with [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#helm-install-installing-a-package);
- with [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/); and finally
- as a StarlingX Application, which benefits from tight integration with the
  [StarlingX system](https://opendev.org/starlingx/config).

In this article I will focus on [Helm](https://helm.sh/),
which is the most popular package manager for Kubernetes. Future blog posts
will address other deployment types and their characteristics.

I will use a virtual All-In-One Simplex (AIO-SX) setup of StarlingX. If you
want to follow along, you can install your own by following the related 
[StarlingX install guide](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/virtual/automated_install.html#dashboards).

Anyone who already packages their application with
[Helm](https://helm.sh/) will be able to deploy it on StarlingX without additional hassle.

## The Demo App

I will use a simple demo app for this blog post, which simulates tasks, like
antivirus scanning and threat monitoring. If you would like to learn more
about the app and use it to follow the below deployment steps, please check

> out the documentation and source in the app's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/bmuniz-daitan/poc-starlingx-messages/blob/v1.5.2/Demo.md#application-demo).

Author: ```suggestion
out the documentation and source in the app's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/brunomuniz-encora/poc-starlingx-messages/blob/v1.5.2/Demo.md#application-demo).
```

## Deploying the Demo App

### Via a Helm Package file

You can simply use the packaged Helm chart from your own source code, and
use the [Helm CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to install the package.

#### Package the Helm chart

The following commands will checkout the demo app, `cd` into the downloaded
source code and finally use `helm` to generate a Helm chart file.

```shell

> git clone https://github.com/bmuniz-daitan/poc-starlingx-messages.git

Author: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/brunomuniz-encora/poc-starlingx-messages.git
```

poc-starlingx-messages  default         1               <date> <time>   deployed   poc-starlingx-1.5.2              1.5.2
[sysadmin@controller-0 ~(keystone_admin)]$
```

#### Modify the app configuration via Helm 

Of course, applications might (and should) [be configurable through the
environment](https://12factor.net/config) where they are running on. The
demo app is no different and exposes several configuration options
via [Helm values](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/values/).

The demo application has multiple components which are deployed as multiple
instances that are configured differently. One of these components is called
`central`, which I will deploy now by creating a user-supplied values file
that will override a few default values:

```shell
cat <<EOF > central-overrides.yml
env:
  # Set application to act as a `central`
  - name: MODE
    value: central

kube:
  # Set the NodePort to be configured within the Kubernetes Service resource
  port: 32767
  # Set a different name for the Kubernetes resources (helper to allow multiple instances run in the same cluster)
  name: poc-starlingx-central

EOF
```

> Now I will use the `central-overrides.yml` file to deploy a new version of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now I will use the `central-overrides.yml` file, that I just created, to deploy a new version of the
```

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx           1/1     1            1           3h51m
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx-central   1/1     1            1           38s

NAME                                               DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-85d766894b           1         1         1       3h51m
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-central-5588f46ccb   1         1         1       38s

[sysadmin@controller-0 ~(keystone_admin)]$ helm list
NAME                            NAMESPACE       REVISION        UPDATED                                 STATUS   CHART                           APP VERSION
poc-starlingx-messages          default         1               2023-10-02 19:54:09.609324422 +0000 UTC deployed poc-starlingx-1.5.2             1.5.2
poc-starlingx-messages-central  default         1               2023-10-02 23:45:23.724816272 +0000 UTC deployed poc-starlingx-1.5.2             1.5.2
```

### Via a Helm Repository

Of course, you can make it even easier to deploy an application by using a

> [Helm charts repository](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/). To demonstrate this, I will deploy the Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Helm charts repository](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/). To demonstrate this, I will deploy a different app, the Kubernetes
```

service/kubernetes              ClusterIP   10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP          7h16m
service/kubernetes-dashboard    NodePort    10.111.41.251   <none>        443:32000/TCP    6h43m
service/poc-starlingx           NodePort    10.97.156.62    <none>        8100:31234/TCP   5h32m
service/poc-starlingx-central   NodePort    10.103.215.65   <none>        8100:32767/TCP   100m

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/kubernetes-dashboard    1/1     1            1           6h43m
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx           1/1     1            1           5h32m
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx-central   1/1     1            1           100m

NAME                                               DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/kubernetes-dashboard-d4df5796b     1         1         1       6h43m
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-7775bb7864           1         1         1       46m
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-central-5588f46ccb   1         1         1       100m
```

We will talk about Flux and StarlingX Apps in the next installments of this series.

# About StarlingX

> If you would like to learn more about the project and get involved check the website for more information or download the code and start to experiment with the platform. If you are already evaluating or using the software please fill out the user survey and help the community improve the project based on your feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to learn more about the project and get involved check the [website](https://www.starlingx.io) for more information or [download the code](https://opendev.org/starlingx) and start to experiment with the platform. If you are already evaluating or using the software please fill out the [user survey](https://openinfrafoundation.formstack.com/forms/starlingx_user_survey) and help the community improve the project based on your feedback.
```

Author: Ops, copy&pasta mistake 😄

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Deploying your application to StarlingX
author: Bruno Muniz
date: 2023-10-13T12:00:00.042Z
category:
  - label: Features & Updates
---

Deploying your own application to StarlingX is as easy as any other Kubernetes

> deployment out there. In this blog post we'll show you the process with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment out there. In this blog post I will show you the process with a
```

Reviewer: As this article has one author, it reads a little confusing to use "we", as it is unclear who that "we" refers to. I would suggest to rather use "I" here and below.

If you are not comfortable with that, you can also use a more active tone and write from the readers perspective. You could say something like: "In this blog post you will learn about the deployment process."

Or, you can stick to a more passive tone, like: "This blog post will go through the deployment process by using a demo application."

Is this helpful?

Reviewer 2: Got it. I guess I was thinking more like "we, the Community, represented here by the person Bruno" or something like that.

> simple demonstration application.<!- more ->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simple demo application.<!- more ->
```

Reviewer: It is very common to just say "demo application" or "demo app", using the shorter version also helps making the article easier to read.

It's important to understand that an application can be deployed in many ways

> to the [Kubernetes cluster(s) that StarlingX manages](https://docs.starlingx.io/operations/k8s_cluster.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the [Kubernetes cluster(s) that StarlingX manages](https://docs.starlingx.io/operations/k8s_cluster.html)
```

:

- [raw Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/deploy-app/deploy-intro/);
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#helm-install-installing-a-package);
- [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/); and finally
- StarlingX Application, which benefits from tight integration with the
  [StarlingX system](https://opendev.org/starlingx/config).

> In this particular demonstration we will focus on [Helm](https://helm.sh/),

Reviewer: Same as above with regards to the usage of "we".

which is the most popular package manager for Kubernetes. Future blog posts
will address other deployment types and their advantages.

> We will use a virtual All-In-One Simplex (AIO-SX) setup of StarlingX. If you

Reviewer: Same comment as above with regards to the usage of "we". It is currently not consistent in the blog post whether the reader is supposed to follow along or not. I think it would be beneficial to stick to one approach throughout the article.

If you choose to rather just explain the steps here, you can still add a note towards the end to encourage people to try this out themselves.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense... I'll give more time on this one and review it next week after addressing the other comments.

> want to follow along, you can install your own with [this guide](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/virtual/automated_install.html#dashboards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
want to follow along, you can install your own by following the related [Starlingx install guide](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/virtual/automated_install.html#dashboards).
```

> Any developer that already packages their application with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone who already packages their application with
```

> [Helm](https://helm.sh/) will be able to deploy their application in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Helm](https://helm.sh/) will be able to deploy it on
```

StarlingX without additional hassle.

## The Demo App

> We will use a simple demonstration application for this blog post. We won't

Reviewer: As you are referring to the demo app a few times throughout the article, I think it would be nice to give it a name. Like calling it starlingx-poc, or just hello-world app, or something similar. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it might be better. Saving this comment for a more detailed review later. :+1:

service/kubernetes-dashboard    NodePort    10.111.41.251   <none>        443:32000/TCP    6h43m
service/poc-starlingx           NodePort    10.97.156.62    <none>        8100:31234/TCP   5h32m
service/poc-starlingx-central   NodePort    10.103.215.65   <none>        8100:32767/TCP   100m

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/kubernetes-dashboard    1/1     1            1           6h43m
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx           1/1     1            1           5h32m
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx-central   1/1     1            1           100m

NAME                                               DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/kubernetes-dashboard-d4df5796b     1         1         1       6h43m
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-7775bb7864           1         1         1       46m
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-central-5588f46ccb   1         1         1       100m
```

In less than 5 minutes you learned how easy it is to deploy your existing
Helm-packaged application to StarlingX. No surprises there! We will talk about
Flux and StarlingX Apps on the next installments of this series.

> ## Appendix - Application Demo and Information

Reviewer: Is this application available for the reader to download?

Reviewer 2: It's available, yes: https://github.com/bmuniz-daitan/poc-starlingx-messages. The instructions include some commands to clone it and package its Helm chart if the reader is following along.

I think I would prefer it to be something from the StarlingX official repositories. On the other hand, since this post is aimed at developers and their own apps, it makes sense to use something completely outside of the StarlingX ecosystem.

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Deploying your application to StarlingX
author: Bruno Muniz
date: 2023-10-25T12:00:00.042Z
category:
  - label: Features & Updates
---

Deploying your own application to StarlingX is as easy as any other Kubernetes
deployment out there. In this blog post I will show you the process with a
simple demo app.<!- more ->

It's important to understand that an application can be deployed in many ways
on the [Kubernetes cluster(s) that StarlingX manages](https://docs.starlingx.io/operations/k8s_cluster.html)
:

- [raw Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/deploy-app/deploy-intro/);
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#helm-install-installing-a-package);
- [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/); and finally
- StarlingX Application, which benefits from tight integration with the
  [StarlingX system](https://opendev.org/starlingx/config).

> In this particular demonstration I will focus on [Helm](https://helm.sh/),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article I will focus on [Helm](https://helm.sh/),
```

which is the most popular package manager for Kubernetes. Future blog posts
will address other deployment types and their advantages.

I will use a virtual All-In-One Simplex (AIO-SX) setup of StarlingX. If you
want to follow along, you can install your own by following the related 
[StarlingX install guide](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/virtual/automated_install.html#dashboards).

Anyone who already packages their application with
[Helm](https://helm.sh/) will be able to deploy it on StarlingX without additional hassle.

> ## The Demo App

Reviewer 2: This is a good point. I'm also not quite comfortable with all this information here, but at the same time this demo app is a way for someone to give it a try if they want.

I personally don't like the idea of a dedicated article for the demo app because of how simple and generic the app itself is. My suggestion would be to completely remove the appendix section and modify this paragraph here to this:

```suggestion
## The Demo App

I will use a simple demo app for this blog post. If you want, you can see more
details about how the demo app works [at this link](https://github.com/bmuniz-daitan/poc-starlingx-messages/blob/v1.5.2/Demo.md#application-demo) later.

Now, let's focus on deploying the app!
```

> ## The Demo App

Reviewer 2: Notice that I used a definitive link from a tag, so the contents should be the same in the future regardless of changes in this repo.

> ## The Demo App

Reviewer: That's a great idea, I really like it.

I have just a small edit to your suggested text, to make it more clear for the reader:

I will use a simple demo app for this blog post, which simulates tasks, like antivirus scanning and threat monitoring. If you would like to learn more about the app, and use it to follow the below deployment steps, please check out the documentation and source in the app's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/bmuniz-daitan/poc-starlingx-messages/blob/v1.5.2/Demo.md#application-demo).

I will use a simple demo app for this blog post. We won't
dive into the use case of the demo app, but there will be
additional information about it at the end of the post.

Now, let's focus on deploying the app!

## Deploying the Demo App

### Via a Helm Package file

You can simply use the packaged Helm chart from your own source code, and
use the [Helm CLI](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to install the package.

> 
> Let's see an example below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### Package the Helm chart

The following commands will checkout the Demo app, `cd` into the downloaded
source code and finally use `helm` to generate a Helm chart file.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/bmuniz-daitan/poc-starlingx-messages.git
cd poc-starlingx-messages
helm package helm-chart/
```

The `poc-starlingx-<version>.tgz` file can be found on the root folder of the
downloaded repo:

```shell
...
Successfully packaged chart and saved it to: .../poc-starlingx-messages/poc-starlingx-1.5.2.tgz
```

#### Install the Helm package directly on StarlingX

Once the package is made available on a StarlingX instance, the below command
will deploy the application to the StarlingX-managed Kubernetes cluster:

```shell
helm install poc-starlingx-messages-node poc-starlingx-1.5.2.tgz
```

This is the expected output:

```shell
NAME: poc-starlingx-messages
LAST DEPLOYED: <date> <time>
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
[sysadmin@controller-0 ~(keystone_admin)]$ 
```

The demonstration app is conveniently setup with sensible defaults so there's
no need for additional configuration in order to get a running application,

> as we can see from the `kubectl get all` output below:

Reviewer 2: Great, I like the inversion, way better. :+1:

> The demonstration app is conveniently setup with sensible defaults so there's
> no need for additional configuration in order to get a running application,
> as we can see from the `kubectl get all` output below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the stage when you can log into your application and configure it, in order to have it fully functional. The demo app that I use does not require any additional set up, and is up and running at this point. You can verify this by using the `kubectl get all` command, which should provide the output below:
```

service/poc-starlingx          NodePort    10.97.156.62    <none>        8100:31234/TCP   40s

NAME                                   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/poc-starlingx          1/1     1            1           40s

NAME                                             DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/poc-starlingx-85d766894b         1         1         1       40s
```

One can also use `helm list` and other Helm commands to check the status of
the deployment:

```shell
sysadmin@controller-0:~$ helm list
NAME                    NAMESPACE       REVISION        UPDATED         STATUS     CHART                            APP VERSION
poc-starlingx-messages  default         1               <date> <time>   deployed   poc-starlingx-1.5.2              1.5.2
[sysadmin@controller-0 ~(keystone_admin)]$
```

#### Set application configuration via Helm 

Of course, applications might (and should) [be configurable through the
environment](https://12factor.net/config) where they are running on. The
demo app is no different and exposes several configurations
via [Helm values](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/values/).

> I will create a user-supplied values file that will override a few default
> values to deploy another instance of the application that will act as a
> `central` (more on what exactly this means at the end of this post):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The demo application has multiple components which are deployed as multiple instances that are configured differently. One of these components is called `central`, which I will deploy now by creating a user-supplied values file that will override a few default values:
```

```shell
cat <<EOF > central-overrides.yml
env:
  # Set application to act as a `central`
  - name: MODE
    value: central

kube:
  # Set the NodePort to be configured within the Kubernetes Service resource
  port: 32767
  # Set a different name for the Kubernetes resources (helper to allow multiple instances run in the same cluster)
  name: poc-starlingx-central

EOF
```

> And now I will use this overrides file to deploy a new version of the

Reviewer 2: Are you ok with the backquotes (``) or should I change them to `'`?

```suggestion
Now I will use the `central-overrides.yml` file to deploy a new version of the
```

dashboard application, which is distributed under a public chart repository. You
can add this application to StarlingX by following the steps below :

```shell
helm repo add kubernetes-dashboard https://kubernetes.github.io/dashboard/
```

And then use it to install the Kubernetes Dashboard:

```shell
cat <<EOF >dashboard-values.yaml
service:
  type: NodePort
  nodePort: 32000

rbac:
  create: true
  clusterAdminRole: true

serviceAccount:
  create: true
  name: kubernetes-dashboard

EOF
helm install kubernetes-dashboard \
 kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard \
 -f dashboard-values.yaml \
 --version 6.0.8
```

These instructions are based on the Kubernetes Dashboard [official
installation guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)
. The [automated virtual installation](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/virtual/automated_install.html#dashboards)
installs and sets up the Kubernetes Dashboard for you. The procedure is also
covered on the [bare metal installation guides](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/kubernetes_access.html#gui).

## Conclusion

> This is what the StarlingX cluster looks like after everything that I covered

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In less than 5 minutes you learned how easy it is to deploy your existing
Helm-packaged application to StarlingX. No surprises there!

This is what the StarlingX cluster looks like after everything that I covered:
```

on the [Kubernetes cluster(s) that StarlingX manages](https://docs.starlingx.io/operations/k8s_cluster.html)
:

- [with plain Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/deploy-app/deploy-intro/) methods;
- with [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#helm-install-installing-a-package);
- with [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/); and finally
- as a StarlingX Application, which benefits from tight integration with the
  [StarlingX system](https://opendev.org/starlingx/config).

In this article I will focus on [Helm](https://helm.sh/),
which is the most popular package manager for Kubernetes. Future blog posts
will address other deployment types and their characteristics.

I will use a virtual All-In-One Simplex (AIO-SX) setup of StarlingX. If you
want to follow along, you can install your own by following the related 
[StarlingX install guide](https://docs.starlingx.io/deploy_install_guides/release/virtual/automated_install.html#dashboards).

Anyone who already packages their application with
[Helm](https://helm.sh/) will be able to deploy it on StarlingX without additional hassle.

## The Demo App

> 
> I will use a simple demo app for this blog post. We won't
> dive into the use case of the demo app, but there will be
> additional information about it at the end of the post.
> 
> Now, let's focus on deploying the app!

Reviewer 2: This suggestion is just a complement of the suggestion above so they can be merged together from the GH review itself.

```suggestion
```
